Part 3: docker

Follow these instructions to create a simple flask app running in a docker container: https://runnable.com/docker/python/dockerize-your-flask-application.

These instructions were not designed specifically with this class in mind, and thus you will have to modify parts of the instructions in order to get them to work. This is intentional in order to get you more practice adapting tutorials into different computational environments. There are two main modifications you'll have to make:

In the docker run command, you will have to change the port that docker exposes to a port other than 5000. (This is because you're all running this code at the same time, and you can't all use the same port.) I recommend using your user id as a port number, as this will guarantee that you don't run into conflicts with other students. Your userid is stored in the environment variable $UID.

In order to view your webpage from your laptop, you will have to connect to the lambda server with local port forwarding enabled. The command will look something like

$ ssh username@134.173.191.241 -p 5055 -L 8080:localhost:DOCKER_PORT
where DOCKER_PORT is whatever port you specified.

Finally, there's a handful of errors that you'll get when you build the project. You'll find that fixing these errors only takes a very small change to the project files, but figuring out exactly what this change is will be quite difficult. The fundamental problem is that various libraries/packages have introduced breaking changes since the author of the tutorial wrote the tutorial. The easiest way to figure out how to get the right versions is to open up a working container with the docker run command, then manually try installing all the different versions of the libraries until you get something that successfully creates the webpage. Once you've figured out the correct sequence of commands, then you should modify the Dockerfile to reflect these new commands.

Submission:

Put all your files from Part 3 into a github repo, and upload the url to sakai.


